[Music]
what does model railroading mean to you
hi I'm Michael Gross welcome to the
workshop at Model Railroader magazine
for me it's memories of the speeding
locomotive passing through town the
familiar sound of steel wheels dancing
down the tracks whistles in the distance
or the friendly wave of the conductor's
the caboose passes by for over 60 years
model railroading has brought memories
to life with scaled versions of our
favorite trains and scenery that recalls
a bygone era
no wonder model railroading is called
the world's greatest hobby there's a
story behind every model railroad the
Madison central was designed by Jim head
agario order magazine an earlier version
of this layout was built by a youth
group for a train show in Madison
Wisconsin it's an HOCl representation of
the short line that served the town and
its quarry mining industry in the late
1960s the Madison central weaves to the
wooded hills and gravel moraines of
southern Wisconsin passing through Lake
Mendota before winding its way north
into the Baraboo Hills in a minute we'll
get down to the basics of building a
model railroad we'll start with the
bench work that's the framework that
will support our railroad and scenery
then we'll lay out the track and connect
the wiring along the way you learned
about putting together structures like
the gravel plant and these downtown
stores will move on to create fantastic
scenery and before you know it the
Madison Central will be making its first
trip down the line in your home ok time
to get on board
let's join modeling expert dick Cecil
and learn just how much fun building
your own layout can be